#summary Release plans
#labels Phase-Requirements

There is a "bug-fix-only" release at *[http://code.google.com/p/beanshell2/downloads/detail?name=bsh-2.1b0.jar v2.1b0]*.

The code hasn't changed much since the last last release on [http://www.beanshell.org Beanshell.org], which was *2.0b4* in june 2005.

This version should be 100% compatible to 2.0b4. 

There is one exception: The [http://code.google.com/p/beanshell2/issues/detail?id=17 support for parsing of java files through the class loader has been dropped]. It was considered more harmful than helpful. Please leave a comment at the [http://code.google.com/p/beanshell2/issues/detail?id=17 issue] if you rely on this - we could possibly add a switch for this.

The most notable other changes are the drop of java 1.4 support and the support of the java 1.5 [http://code.google.com/p/beanshell2/issues/detail?id=13 vararg] feature - it is now possible calling vararg methods with java5 from beanshell2. Also it's now possible to [http://code.google.com/p/beanshell2/issues/detail?id=2 use long string literals]:
{{{
    String xml =  """
<books>
    <book>
        <title>Beanshell2</title>
        ...
    </book>
    ...
</books>""";
}}}

See the list of [http://code.google.com/p/beanshell2/issues/list?can=1&q=status%3AFixed+Type%3DDefect bug fixes], [http://code.google.com/p/beanshell2/issues/list?can=1&q=status%3AFixed+Type%3DEnhancement enhancements] or see [http://code.google.com/p/beanshell2/issues/list?can=1&q=status%3AFixed+milestone%3D2.1b0 all changes here].

Possible mid time targets for a further *2.1* builds could be:
 * Further *bug fixes*<br>There are 223 open bugs listed for the old beanshell version at [http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=4075 sourceforge.net] which could be evaluated and moved to our [http://code.google.com/p/beanshell2/issues/list issue tracker]
 * ~~Build-in *jsr-233 support*~~ _done_<br>..inluding an AST based javax.script.Compilable support with improved performance for repeated invocations
 * *Improved class file creation*<br>If you work with interfaces you don't need class definitions in beanshell at all.<br>Currently beanshell embeds an ancient [http://asm.ow2.org/ ASM] version.
 * *Performance improvements*<br>Beanshell isn't slow and has a very low memory footprint, but you could alway do better...;)
 * ??

A possible long time target could be the compilation to class file, utilizing the new Java 7 dynamic call site support.

Please file an [http://code.google.com/p/beanshell2/issues/list issue] or send a request to the [http://beanshell.2283338.n4.nabble.com/BeanShell-2-fork-f3316372.html discussion group] for your feature requests.